The Metasploit Framework (MSF)
- The Metasploit Framework (MSF) is an open-source, robust penetration testing and exploitation framework that is used by penetration testers and security researchers worldwide.
- It provides penetration testers with a robust infrastructure required to automate every stage of the penetration testing life cycle.
- It is also used to develop and test exploits and has one of the world's largest database of public, tested exploits.
- The Metasploit Framework is designed to be modular, allowing for new functionality to be implemented with ease.
- The Metasploit Framework has exploitation and post-exploitation automation capabilities as well, and is extensively used for automated penetration testing.
- The automation capabilities are augmented by the wide library of modules present in the Metasploit Framework, for various specific tasks.
- The Metasploit Framework source code is available on GitHub.
- Developers are constantly adding new exploits to the framework.

History of The Metasploit Framework
- Developed by HD Moore in 2003.
- Originally developed in Perl.
- Rewritten in Ruby in 2007.
- Acquired by Rapid7 in 2009.
- Metasploit 5.0 released in 2019.
- Metasploit 6.0 released in 2020.

Metasploit Editions:
- Metasploit Pro (Commercial)
- Metasploit Express (Commercial)
- Metasploit Framework (Community)

Essential Terminology:
- Interface - Methods of interacting with the Metasploit Framework.
- Module - Pieces of code that perform a particular task, an example of a module is an exploit.
- Vulnerability - Weakness or flaw in a computer system or network that can be exploited.
- Exploit - Piece of code/module that is used to take advantage of a vulnerability within a system, service or application
- Payload - Piece of code delivered to the target system by an exploit with the objective of executing arbitrary commands or providing remote access to an attacker.
- Listener - A utility that listens for an incoming connection from a target, sent by the payload dropped on the target system.

Metasploit Framework Console:
- The Metasploit Framework Console (MSFconsole) is an easy-to-use all in one interface that provides you with access to all the functionality of the Metasploit Framework.

Metasploit Framework CLI:
- The Metasploit Framework Command Line (MSFcli) is a command line utility that is used to facilitate the creation of automation scripts that utilize Metasploit modules.
- It can be used to redirect output from other tools in to MSFcli and vice versa.
- Note: MSFcli was discontinued in 2015, however, the same functionality can be leveraged through the MSFConsole.

Metasploit Community Edition
- Metasploit Community Edition is a web based GUI front-end for the Metasploit Framework that simplifies the network discovery and vulnerability identification processes.

Armitage
- Armitage is a free Java based GUI front-end for the Metasploit Framework that simplifies the network discovery, exploitation and post exploitation processes.