Active Recon refers to the process of interacting with the target systems or sites in order to gather more information about them. Active recon tactics need exclusive authorization to perform, and may lead to being put under scrutiny by the law if authorization is not provided by the owner of the target systems or sites.

- DNS Zone Transfers
	DNS (Domain Name System)
		DNS is a protocol used to resolve domain names to IP addresses. In the earlier days of the internet, people either used to remember the IP addresses of the sites they needed to visit, or setup host files that needed to be updated regularly. DNS resolves this issue.
	Hosts Files
		Linux: /etc/hosts
		Hosts files contains a list of hostnames and their corresponding IP addresses, as well as domain names and their corresponding IP addresses.
		Hosts files were used prior to DNS servers being implemented.
		Hosts files can be used to create local domain names, which will only work on the device the hosts file is present on.
	DNS Records (What is actually contained on a DNS Server)
		A - resolves a domain name to an IPv4 address
		AAAA - resolves a domain name to an IPV6 address
		NS - Reference to the authoritative domain nameserver (the DNS server that actually contains the records for the specified domain name)
		MX - Resolves a domain to a mail server
		CNAME - Used for domain aliases (when a DNS resolver queries a domain name with a CNAME record, the domain name queried in the CNAME record is the one that is actually queried instead)
		TXT - A text record, mainly used for site verification purposes
		HINFO - A HINFO record provides information about the host's hardware and operating system, HINFO records are obsolete by modern standards.
		SOA - Domain Authority (??)
		SRV - Service Records (??)
		PTR - Resolves an IP address to a domain name (They function in an opposite manner to the A records and the AAAA records, since they resolve an IP address to a domain name)
	DNS Interrogation (Active DNS Recon technique)
		DNS Interrogation is the process of enumerating DNS Records for a specific domain.
		The objective of DNS Interrogation is to probe a DNS server to provide us with DNS records for a specific domain
		This process can provide us with important information like the IP address of a domain, subdomains, mail server addresses etc. which might not be available when queried for in passive enumeration.
	DNS Zone Transfer (Active DNS Recon technique)
		In some cases, DNS Server admins may want to copy or transfer zone files (zone files are files that contain detailed DNS records) from one DNS Server to another. This process is known as a zone transfer.
		If misconfigured and left unsecured, Zone Transfer functionality can be abused by attackers to copy the zone file from the primary DNS server to another DNS server.
		A DNS Zone transfer can provide pentesters with a holistic view of an organization's network layout.
		In some cases, the vulnerable DNS server may also contain internal network addresses.
		In case we perform a DNS Zone Transfer attack, and are provided with subdomains that are not accessible to us, it might be an Internal DNS Record, which is a critical security issue.
		Internal network address could be used to map the internal network, and can be exploited if there is an opportunity to gain access to the target organization's internal network.
		Some of the records can be public as well, in which case one can add it to their scope and perform security testing on the servers  that those records point to.
		Vulnerable site for Zone Transfer demo: zonetansfer.me
		Cloudflare Nameservers are secure, and do not enable zone transfer services.
	DNS Bruteforce Attacks
		DNS Bruteforce can be used to identify different kinds of records, most commonly subdomains. It can be performed using DNSEnum and fierce. 
	DNSEnum
		DNSEnum can also be used to  perform DNS Zone Transfer attacks automatically, so it is classified as an Active DNS Recon tool.
		It can also be used to perform DNS bruteforce attacks to help identify subdomains.
	DIG
		Example: `dig axfr @<nameserver address> <domain name>`
		DIG is a DNS Lookup utility.
		DIG might be better than DNSEnum for the reason that DIG requires manual input of the tasks to be performed, whereas DNSEnum automates a lot of the tasks for active DNS recon, and may even perform DNS bruteforcing unprompted.
	Fierce
		Example: `fierce -dns zonetransfer.me`
		Fierce is a DNS Bruteforcing tool, it performs a dns zone transfer attack, a dns bruteforce attack, a dns wildcard test and then performs some tests based on their results.

- Host discovery with Nmap and NetDiscover
	Nmap - Ping Scan
		- Example: `sudo nmap -sn`
		- A ping scan helps us discover systems or hosts on a network that we are connected to, using ICMP and TCP requests.
		- To determine the subnet of a network we are present on, we can use the ip command on Linux, which will provide us with the local ip address, subnet and netmask.
		Ping scans require sudo privileges.
	NetDiscover
		- Example: `sudo netdiscover -i eth0 -r 192.168.2.0/24`
		- NetDiscover works by sending ARP requests, which resolve MAC addresses to IP addresses and vice-versa.
		- It uses a different technique than Nmap Ping Scans.

- Port scanning with Nmap
	Port scanning
		Port scans helps us determine the open ports and services running on a system. It also helps us perform service version detection and OS detection.
	Default Nmap Scan
		Example: `sudo nmap 192.168.2.1 -Pn -v`
		The default Nmap scan is a SYN scan, on the first 1000 ports on a system.
	Port scanning without ping scans (for Windows hosts)
		Windows hosts can block ICMP Ping probes, we can use the `-Pn` flag to skip the ping scan.
	Specifying port range to be scanned
		The `-p` option helps specify the ports to be scanned, `-p-` scans all the ports present on a target host.
	Port states
		A filtered port state means that the port could be closed or be blocked by a firewall.
	Fast Scan
		Example: `nmap -F 192.168.2.1 -v`
		A fast Nmap scan scans the top 100 ports.
	UDP Scan
		Example: `nmap -sU 192.168.2.1 -v`
		A UDP port scan takes longer than a TCP port scan.
	Service Version Detection scan
		Example: `nmap -sV 192.168.2.1`
		A service version detection scan can be performed with the help of the `-sV` flag.
	OS Detection scan
		Example: `nmap -O 192.168.2.1`
		The `-O` flag can be used to detect the OS running on the target system. It doesn't provide a definite output in most scenarios.
	Script Scan (for Enumeration)
		`Example: `nmap -sC -O 192.168.2.1`
		uses the `-sC` flag
		Tries to run Nmap scripts on open ports to enumerate more information from the open ports.
	Nmap Aggressive Scan
		uses the `-A` flag
		The aggressive scan is a combination of Service Version, OS Detection and Scripts scans altogether.
	Nmap Scan Timing Templates
		uses the following flags, the lower the number the slower the scan, the higher the number the faster the scan.
		`-T0` (paranoid),`-T1` (sneaky), `-T2` (polite), `-T3` (normal), `-T4` (aggressive), `-T5` (insane)
		Slower scans can help bypass Intrusion Detection Systems, faster scans can help get the results faster.
		Default timing template is based on network infrastructure.
		`-T5` (insane) is not recommended on production environment, since it can result in overbearing packet density and essentially perform a Denial of Service attack on the network equipment.
	Output Nmap scan results to a file
		Example: `nmap 192.168.2.1 -oN test.txt`
		Example: `nmap 192.168.2.1 -oX test.xml`
		Can be performed with the `-oN` and the `-oX` flag, the `-oX` flag saves the output in the XML format.