- Initial enumeration practice with HTTP should generally be using a browser to verify what is being hosted on the HTTP server, and performing a service version detection scan using Nmap.

HTTP Enumeration using Nmap Scripts
	- `http-enum`
		- This script enumerates directories used by popular web applications and servers.
		- Example: `sudo nmap --script=http-enum 192.168.0.1 -p 80`
		- This parses a fingerprint file that's similar in format to the Nikto Web application scanner. This script, however, takes it one step further by building in advanced pattern matching as well as having the ability to identify specific versions of Web applications. 
		- You can also parse a Nikto-formatted database using http-fingerprints.nikto-db-path. This will try to parse most of the fingerprints defined in nikto's database in real time.
		- Initially, this script attempts to access two different random files in order to detect servers that don't return a proper 404 Not Found status. In the event that they return 200 OK, the body has any non-static-looking data removed (URI, time, etc), and saved. If the two random attempts return different results, the script aborts (since a 200-looking 404 cannot be distinguished from an actual 200). This will prevent most false positives. 
		- In addition, if the root folder returns a 301 Moved Permanently or 401 Authentication Required, this script will also abort. If the root folder has disappeared or requires authentication, there is little hope of finding anything inside it. 
		- By default, only pages that return 200 OK or 401 Authentication Required are displayed. If the http-enum.displayall script argument is set, however, then all results will be displayed (except for 404 Not Found and the status code returned by the random files). Entries in the http-fingerprints database can specify their own criteria for accepting a page as valid.
	- `http-headers`
		- This script performs a HEAD request for the root folder ("/") of a web server and displays the HTTP headers returned.
	- `http-methods`
		- Finds out what options are supported by an HTTP server by sending an OPTIONS request. Lists potentially risky methods. It tests those methods not mentioned in the OPTIONS headers individually and sees if they are implemented. Any output other than 501/405 suggests that the method is if not in the range 400 to 600. If the response falls under that range then it is compared to the response from a randomly generated method.
		- In this script, "potentially risky" methods are anything except GET, HEAD, POST, and OPTIONS. If the script reports potentially risky methods, they may not all be security risks, but you should check to make sure.
		- The list of supported methods comes from the contents of the Allow and Public header fields. In verbose mode, a list of all methods is printed, followed by the list of potentially risky methods. Without verbose mode, only the potentially risky methods are shown.
		- The flag `http-methods.url-path` is used to define the path to request, its default value is `/`.
		- Example: `sudo nmap 192.168.0.1 -p --script=http-methods --script-args=http-methods.url-path /webdav/`
	- `http-webdav-scan`
		- A script to detect WebDAV installations. Uses the OPTIONS and PROPFIND methods.
		- The script sends an OPTIONS request which lists the dav type, server type, date and allowed methods. It then sends a PROPFIND request and tries to fetch exposed directories and internal ip addresses by doing pattern matching in the response body.