- We can use various Nmap Scripts to enumerate the SMB service.
- Most SMB enumeration scripts are meant to be used on ports 139 (NetBIOS) and 445 (SMB).
- It is preferable to gather as much information as possible during the enumeration phase.
- Reference Documentation for Nmap Scripts: https://nmap.org/nsedoc/scripts/
- X vs X$ share: Shares with their names ending with the `"$"` sign are generally considered to be administrative shares, created by Windows, which require admin credentials to connect to, and are hidden by default. The shares without any `"$"` in their name on the other hand, could be manually created by users or administrators to provide access to specific drives or the files within them.

SMB Enumeration with Nmap Scripts
	- Usage Example: `nmap 10.4.0.7 -p445,139 --script smb-protocols --script-args smbusername=administrator,smbpassword=smbserver_771`
	- For scenarios where stealth is not a concern, it is generally recommended to use this scripts as an authenticated user to gain as much information as possible.
	`smb-protocols`
		- This script enumerates what protocols and dialects the service is using, which is helpful, as it essentially is version number information on specific protocols.
		- Additionally if SMBv1 is found enabled, it will mark it as insecure.
		- SMBv1 has been exploited by many exploits like WannaCry. The presence of SMBv1 on the system can be categorized as a misconfiguration.
	`smb-security-mode`
		- This script enumerates the SMB security level information.
		- Here is how to interpret the output:
			- User-level authentication: Each user has a separate username/password that is used to log into the system. This is the default setup of pretty much everything these days.
			- Share-level authentication: The anonymous account should be used to log in, then the password is given (in plaintext) when a share is accessed. All users who have access to the share use this password. This was the original way of doing things, but isn't commonly seen, now. If a server uses share-level security, it is vulnerable to sniffing.
			- Challenge/response passwords supported: If enabled, the server can accept any type of password (plaintext, LM and NTLM, and LMv2 and NTLMv2). If it isn't set, the server can only accept plaintext passwords. Most servers are configured to use challenge/response these days. If a server is configured to accept plaintext passwords, it is vulnerable to sniffing. LM and NTLM are fairly secure, although there are some brute-force attacks against them. Additionally, LM and NTLM can fall victim to man-in-the-middle attacks or relay attacks.
			- Message signing: If required, all messages between the client and server must be signed by a shared key, derived from the password and the server challenge. If supported and not required, message signing is negotiated between clients and servers and used if both support and request it. By default, Windows clients don't sign messages, so if message signing isn't required by the server, messages probably won't be signed; additionally, if performing a man-in-the-middle attack, an attacker can negotiate no message signing. If message signing isn't required, the server is vulnerable to man-in-the-middle attacks or SMB-relay attacks.
	`smb-enum-sessions`
		- This script enumerates the active sessions on the SMB share.
		- While using guest mode for the script, i.e. not providing any credentials for an elevated user, we will just be able to enumerate other active guest session users.
		- We can pass credentials as arguments for the script to be able to better enumerate logged in sessions from other users.
		- Usage Example: `nmap -p445,139 10.4.31.90 -script=smb-enum-sessions --script-args smbusername=administrator,smbpassword=smbserver_771`
		- Upon using the credentials as script arguments, we are now also able to check the session creation time for other logged in users.
		- From the perspective of a penetration tester, the SMB Sessions is probably the most useful part of this program, especially because it doesn't require a high level of access. On, for example, a file server, there might be a dozen or more users connected at the same time. Based on the usernames, it might tell the tester what types of files are stored on the share.
	`smb-enum-shares`
		- This script helps enumerate SMB drive share access configurations.
		- It also helps enumerate the folders and devices present on the SMB share.
		- Finding open shares is useful to a penetration tester because there may be private files shared, or, if it's writable, it could be a good place to drop a Trojan or to infect a file that's already there. Knowing where the share is could make those kinds of tests more useful, except that determining where the share is requires administrative privileges already.
		- The IPC$ share is also known as a null session connection. By using this session, Windows lets anonymous users perform certain activities, such as enumerating the names of domain accounts and network shares
		- We can pass credentials as arguments for the script to be able to better enumerate SMB shares.
		- Usage Example: `nmap -p445,139 10.4.31.90 -script=smb-enum-shares --script-args smbusername=administrator,smbpassword=smbserver_771`
	`smb-ls`
		- Attempts to retrieve useful information about files shared on SMB volumes. The output is intended to resemble the output of the UNIX `ls` command.
	`smb-enum-shares,smb-ls`
		- The `smb-ls` script, when combined with the `smb-enum-shares` script can be used to perform aggressive enumeration on the file structure of the SMB share.
		- Not only will the scan now result in an output of the files and directories present on the SMB share, but also the files present within those files and directories.
	`smb-enum-users`
		- This script helps enumerate users present in the SMB configuration
		- The goal of this script is to discover all user accounts that exist on a remote system. This can be helpful for administration, by seeing who has an account on a server, or for penetration testing or network footprinting, by determining which accounts exist on a system.
		- Usage Example: `nmap -p445,139 10.4.31.90 -script=smb-enum-users --script-args smbusername=administrator,smbpassword=smbserver_771`
		- The script provides information on user-names, descriptions and authentication flag set in the configuration.
		- A guest account that requires no authentication to use is a security misconfiguration, and if found can be written up as a finding.
	`smb-server-stats`
		- This script attempts to grab the server statistics including parameters like:
			- failed logins
			- permission errors
			- system errors
			- print jobs
			- files opened
	`smb-enum-domains`
		- Domain information includes parameters like:
			- Users
			- Groups
			- Creation Time
			- Password Policies
			- Password Properties (Complexity Requirements)
			- Account Lockout configuration
		- This script attempts to enumerate domains on a system, along with their policies. This generally requires credentials, except against Windows 2000.
		- In addition to the actual domain, the "Builtin" domain is generally displayed. Windows returns this in the list of domains, but its policies don't appear to be used anywhere.
		- Much of the information provided is useful to a penetration tester, because it tells the tester what types of policies to expect. For example, if passwords have a minimum length of 8, the tester can trim his database to match; if the minimum length is 14, the tester will probably start looking for sticky notes on people's monitors.
		- Another useful piece of information is the password lockouts. A penetration tester often wants to know whether or not there's a risk of negatively impacting a network, and this will indicate it.
		- The SID is displayed, which may be useful in other tools; the users are listed, which uses different functions than `smb-enum-users` (though likely won't get different results), and the date and time the domain was created may give some insight into its history.
	`smb-enum-groups`
		- This script obtains a list of groups from the remote Windows system, as well as a list of the group's users.
		- Finding available information about the Administrators group could be handy, as using this script will list the users in the group, and we as penetration testers may use that to prioritize which users to target to gain elevated access to the target system.
	`smb-enum-services`
		- Retrieves the list of services running on a remote Windows system. Each service attribute contains service name, display name and service status of each service.
		- Modern Windows systems requires a privileged domain account in order to list the services.