Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
- SNMP (Simple Network Management Protocol) is a widely used protocol for monitoring and managing networked devices, such as routers, switched, printers, servers, and more.
- It allows network administrators to query devices for status information, configure certain settings, and receive alerts or traps when specific events occur.
- SNMP is an application layer protocol that typically uses UDP for transport. It involves three primary components:
	- SNMP Manager: The system responsible for querying and interacting with SNMP agents on networked devices.
	- SNMP Agent: Software running on networked devices that responds to SNMP queries and sends traps.
	- Management Information Base (MIB): A hierarchical database that defines the structure of data available through SNMP. Each piece of data has a unique Object Identifier (OID).
- Versions of SNMP:
	- SNMPv1: The earliest version of SNMP, using community strings (essentially passwords) for authentication.
	- SNMPv2: An improved version with support for bulk transfers but still relying on community strings for authentication.
	- SNMPv3: Introduced security features, including encryption, message integrity, and user-based authentication.
- Ports:
	- Port 161 (UDP): Used for SNMP queries.
	- Port 162 (UDP): Used for SNMP traps (notifications).

SNMP Enumeration
- SNMP Enumeration in penetration testing involves querying SNMP-enabled devices to gather information useful for identifying potential vulnerabilities, misconfigurations, or points of attack.
- Here are the key objectives and outcomes of SNMP enumeration during a pentest:
	- Identify SNMP-Enabled Devices: Determine which devices on the network have SNMP enabled and whether they are vulnerable to information leakage or attacks.
	- Exact System Information: Collect system-related data like device names, operating systems, software versions, network interfaces, and more.
	- Identify SNMP Community Strings: Test for default or weak community strings, which can grant unauthorized access to device information.
	- Retrieve Network Configurations: Gather information about routing tables, network interfaces, IP addresses, and other network-specific details.
	- Collect User and Group Information: In some cases, SNMP can reveal user account information and access permissions.
	- Identify Services and Applications: Find out which services and applications are running on the target devices, potentially leading to further attack vectors.

Practical Demonstration
- `cat /etc/hosts`
- `nmap -sU -sV -p 161 demo.ine.local`
- The Nmap scan informs us that the SNMP service is running on the target machine.
- Brute-forcing SNMP community string using Nmap scripts:
	- `ls -al /usr/share/nmap/scripts/ | grep -e "snmp"`
	- `ls -al /usr/share/nmap/nselib/data/ | grep "snmp"`
	- `nmap -sU -p 161 --script snmp-brute demo.ine.local`
	- The brute-force here resulted in the discovery of three SNMP community strings: "public", "private" and "secret".
- Authenticated SNMP Enumeration using `snmpwalk`
	- `snmpwalk` is an SNMP application that utilizes SNMP GET NEXT requests to query a particular system that has SNMP for a tree of information.
	- `snmpwalk` can be used to extract quite a bit of information from the target system.
	- `snmpwalk -v 1 -c public demo.ine.local`, the `-v` flag here is used to input the version of SNMP running on the target system, the version can be discovered using either an Nmap service version detection scan, or the `snmp-info` script, the `-c` flag is used to define the community string to be used during the execution of the tool.
	- The usage of this tool will dump a lot of unreadable data entries on the terminal output, to get the data in a much more readable format, we can use SNMP relevant Nmap scripts instead.
		- `nmap -sU -p 161 --script snmp-* demo.ine.local > snmp_info`
		- The result of this command is all the data provided earlier, but in a more readable format.
		- The data includes: installed software information, network interfaces and general network information, community strings, windows services, and windows user information.
	- The Windows user information gained earlier can be used to perform brute-force attacks on the target machine, using Hydra.
		- `hydra -L administrator -P /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/unix_passwords.txt demo.ine.local smb`
		- The brute-force attack we just performed provided us with valid credentials "elizabeth" to the user "administrator".
		- We can now authenticate using PsExec or the Metasploit PsExec module to perform Authenticated User Code Execution.