Network Protocols
	In computer networks, hosts communicate with each other through the use of Network Protocols.
	Network Protocols ensure that different computer systems with varying hardware and software parameters can communicate with each other.
	There are a large number of protocols used by different services for different objectives.
	Communication between different hosts is facilitated through the use of packets.

Packets
	Information in networking is transferred by packets.
	Packets can be referred to as streams of bits running as electric signals on physical media used for data transmission.
	Electric signals running on physical media is interpreted by the computer systems as 0s and 1s that make up the information being transferred.
	Every packet in every protocol has a Header and a Payload, the header is the part of the packet containing essential metadata about the packet, like the source and destination IP address, the payload can be considered the actual data being transferred.
	The header has a protocol specific structure, this ensures that the receiving host can correctly interpret the payload and handle the protocol-specific communication process.

The OSI Model
	The OSI Model standards for the Open Systems Interconnection
	It is a conceptual framework that standardizes the functions of a telecommunication or computing system into seven abstract layers.
	It was developed by the ISO (the International Organization for Standardization)
	The OSI model is divided into seven layers, each representing a specific functionality in the process of network communication.
	The 7 layers can be represented from either the top to the bottom or the other way around.
	1. Physical Layer - The Physical Layer deals with the physical connection between devices. Examples: USB, Ethernet cables, Coaxial cables, Hubs etc.
	2. Data Link Layer - The Data Link Layer layer manages access to the physical medium and provides error detection, It is responsible for framing, addressing and error checking of data frames at a local network level. Examples: Ethernet Frames, Switches etc.
	3. Network Layer - The Network Layer is responsible for logical addressing and routing, It allows for a logical addressing system and the routing of information between systems on a network. Examples: IP Layer, ICMP, IPSEC.
	4. Transport Layer - The transport layer ensures end to end communication, and flow control. Examples: TCP, UDP etc.
	5. Session Layer - The Session Layer is responsible for managing sessions and connections between applications. Handles synchronization, and token management, (Interhost communication). Examples: RPC, APIs, NetBIOS
	6. Presentation Layer - The Presentation Layer is responsible for data translation between the Application Layer, It is responsible for data format translation, encryption and compression, to ensure that data is presented in a readable format. Examples: SSL/TLS, JPEG, GIF, SSH, IMAP etc.
	7. Application Layer - It provides network services directly to end users or applications. Examples: HTTP, FTP, IRC, SSH, DNS.

The OSI Model - Conclusion
	It serves as a guideline for developing and understanding network protocols and communication processes.
	It is a conceptual model, which helps in organizing the complex task of network communication into manageable and structured layers.
	The OSI Model is a reference model, and may not strictly represent actual network communication architecture.