- Ensuring that you are saving your scan results is a very crucial thing in a pentest.
- Logging every command you use during a professional pentest is a good idea for accountability.
- Saving scan results can also help you keep the number of scans to the minimum by not requiring that you scan the network repeatedly.

Nmap Output Formats
	- `-oN` is used to save the output in the normal format, which will just save the results as you typically see it on your terminal screen. The output file format used with this format is `.txt`.
	- `-oX` is used to save the output in the XML format, XML offers a conversion layer, which helps us export the scan results to the Metasploit framework database. Metasploit then saves the result locally in a Metasploit workspace, so even in cases that the output file from Nmap gets lost, the results can be referenced by using the Metasploit workspace the file was imported to. The output file format used for XML files is `.xml`.
	- `-oS` is the script kiddie format, it is like normal output, except that it is post-processed to better suit the 'l33t HaXXorZ! They previously looked down on Nmap due to its consistent capitalization and spelling.
	- `-oG` is used to save the output in a Grep-able format, it outputs the scan results in a Grep-able format that one can query using grep, sed and awk. It is the preferable format to be used in automation or scripting.
	- `-oA` is used to combine output in the format of the three major formats (Normal, Grep-able, and XML), all at once.
	- `-v` is used to increase scan verbosity levels in the scan results, i.e. increasing the amount of information available on your terminal screen, `-vv` is used for even more verbosity than what is offered by the `-v` flag.
	- `--reason` is used to display the reason that a port might be in a particular state, it is different from verbosity as verbosity levels display other diagnostic and non diagnostic data as well.
	- Example Usage: `nmap --reason -Pn -sS -F -T4 10.4.19.132 -oN nmap_normal.txt`

Importing Scan Results in the XML format to Metasploit
	- The Metasploit framework database connects to the PostgreSQL database to save results: `service postgresql start`
	- Starting Metasploit framework: `msfconsole`
	- Listing workspace help: `workspace -h`
	- Adding a workspace named pentest_1: `workspace -a pentest_1`
	- Listing workspaces: `workspace`
	- Verifying Metasploit framework database status: `db_status`
	- Importing Nmap scan results: `db_import nmap_xml.xml`
	- Listing known hosts to verify imported data from scan results: `hosts`
	- Listing known services to verify imported data from scan results: `services`
	- Conducting a Nmap scan from within Metasploit framework: `db_nmap -sS -Pn -A -p445 10.4.19.132`
	- Listing known hosts, including the ones from the recently conducted scan: `hosts`
	- Listing known services, including the ones from the recently conducted scan: `services`
	- Switching workspace to the default workspace to verify that the imported scan results are only imported to specific workspaces and not globally: `workspace default`
	- Listing known hosts on the default workspace: `hosts`
	- Exiting Metasploit framework: `exit`

Using Grep to query Grep-able scan results
	- Performing a Nmap scan and saving the output in the Grep-able format: `sudo nmap -sS 10.10.0.1 -oG grepable.txt`
	- Listing saved scan results using cat and using grep to query for the word "open": `cat grepable.txt | grep "open"`