- Nmap's built in timing templates can be used to slow down or speed up Nmap's scans.
- Slowing down the scan can be considered helpful when one is dealing with Intrusion Detection Systems, as it will reduce the amount of packets being sent, and will make the network activity appear less suspicious.
- You may also want to slow down your scans to prevent sudden crashes, if you are dealing with a network that is utilizing very old equipment.

Nmap Timing Templates
	- Nmap's timing templates are used to slow down or speed up Nmap's scans.
	- There are 6 Nmap timing templates, each with a unique name to go along with it, as shown below. (`nmap -T4 10.10.0.1`)
		- T0 (paranoid): The T0 timing template is generally used for IDS evasion.
		- T1 (sneaky): The T1 timing template is generally used for IDS evasion.
		- T2 (polite)
		- T3 (normal): The T3 timing template is the default timing template used by Nmap to conduct scans.
		- T4 (aggressive): The T4 timing template speeds up the scan, and assumes that the user is on a reasonably fast and reliable network.
		- T5 (insane): The T5 timing template ramps up the number of packets being sent by Nmap to the maximum that it can send, without compromising on the accuracy of the results.

Scan Delay (`--scan-delay`/`--max-scan-delay`)
		- The scan delay option enables us to adjust the delay between probes.
		- It can be used to specify the amount of delay between each packet being sent.
		- A higher scan delay tends to slow down the scan.
		- The instructor generally used 15 second timeouts, while trying to perform stealthier scans.

Host Timeout (`--host-timeout`)
		- The host timeout option enables us to set up a host discovery timeout, which is essentially a duration of time which once exceeded, Nmap will give up on the current target and proceed to the next one.
		- This option can be useful when performing Host Discovery or Port Scanning on a large number of IPs.
		- We can specify the timeout in seconds using `1s`, in minutes using `1m`, in hours using `1h`.
		- Example Usage: `nmap -sS 10.10.0.5 --host-timeout 5s`
		- Certain target hosts will take longer than others to respond, if we set the time too little, we may end up missing out on scanning active systems.
		- The instructor generally uses 30 second timeouts when working with large networks.

Methodology
	- For stealthy scans: `sudo nmap -T0 -f -D 10.10.0.1,10.10.0.7 10.10.0.2`
	- For aggressive scans: `sudo nmap -sS -T4 10.10.0.2`