- A web server is a software that is used to serve website data on the web.
- Web servers utilize HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) to facilitate the communication between clients and the web server.
- HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) is an application layer protocol that utilizes the port tcp/80 for communication. When an SSL certificate is configured for encryption, the protocol is known as HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure), and the port used is tcp/443.
- We can utilize auxiliary modules to enumerate the web server version, HTTP headers, brute-force directories and much more.
- Examples of some popular web servers are: Apache, Nginx, and Microsoft IIS.
- When a user sends a request to a web server, first the DNS (Domain Name Service) is utilized to translate the domain name to the ip address, then the request is made to the web server present on the ip address using HTTP methods, the server then responds back with a HTTP response and the data in the response is rendered by the web browser.

Practical Demonstration
	- `service postgresql start`
	- `msfconsole`
	- `workspace -a web_enum`
	- `setg RHOSTS demo.ine.local`
	- Web server version enumeration
		- `search type:auxiliary name:http`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version`
		- `options`
		- If we are dealing with a website that uses HTTPS, we can set the `SSL` option to true: `set SSL true`
		- `run`
	- HTTP header enumeration
		- `search type:auxiliary name:http_header`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/http/http_header`
		- `options`
		- `run`
	- robots.txt enumeration
		- `search robots_txt`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt`
		- `options`
		- `run`
		- `curl http://demo.ine.local/data` returns a page with directory listing enabled.
		- `curl http://demo.ine.local/secure` returns 401 unauthorized.
	- Directory bruteforcing
		- `search dir_scanner`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_scanner`
		- `options`
		- `run`
	- File bruteforcing
		- `search files_dir`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/http/files_dir`
		- `info`
		- `options`
		- The `EXT` option can be used to specify the extensions of the files we are looking for.
		- `run`
	- Credential brute-forcing on a login page
		- `search http_login`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/http/http_login`
		- `options`
		- `set AUTH_URI /secure/`
		- `unset USERPASS_FILE`
		- `set USER_FILE /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/namelist.txt`
		- `set PASS_FILE /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/unix_passwords.txt`
		- `run`
		- This didn't result in much, so we tried enumerating users from Apache to create a custom wordlist to set as an input for USER_FILE.
	- Enumerating Apache users.
		- `search apache_userdir_enum`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_userdir_enum`
		- `info`
		- `set USER_FILE /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/common_users.txt`
	- Credential brute-forcing on a login page, attempt 2
		- `search http_login`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/http/http_login`
		- `echo "rooty" > user.txt`
		- `set USER_FILE /root/user.txt`
		- `run`
		- The second attempt, by the instructor, at bruteforcing the credentials didn't work either

- Metasploit modules, for web enumeration, to keep in mind during the exam
	- `auxiliary/scanner/http/apache_userdir_enum`
	- `auxiliary/scanner/http/brute_dirs`
    - `auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_scanner`
    - `auxiliary/scanner/http/dir_listing`
    - `auxiliary/scanner/http/http_put`
    - `auxiliary/scanner/http/files_dir`
    - `auxiliary/scanner/http/http_login`
    - `auxiliary/scanner/http/http_header`
    - `auxiliary/scanner/http/http_version`
    - `auxiliary/scanner/http/robots_txt`
