Phase 2 - Security Auditing
	- Objective: Perform a security audit on a Linux server using Lynis, identify vulnerabilities, and remediate the findings based on the security policy.
	- Security Auditing with Lynis
		Step 1 - Installing and Running Lynis:
			- Install Lynis: Install Lynis on the Linux server.
			- Audit the Server: Run a Lynis audit scan on the target Linux server.
			- Review the Report: Analyze the Lynis report to identify security issues and recommendations.
		Step 2 - Remediation
			- Address Findings: Remediate vulnerabilities identified in the Lynis report (e.g. updating software, enforcing password policies).
			- Update Security Policy: Document remediation actions and update the security policy to reflect changes.

Practical Demonstration
	- On systems running Ubuntu or Debian Linux, Lynis can be installed directly from the distribution's software repositories, using apt.
	- Downloading Lynis from https://cisofy.com/lynis/ and installing it.
	- On Linux systems, you can download the tarball file for Lynis and save it in the `/opt/` directory, using `wget`.
	- `cd /opt/`
	- `wget https://downloads.cisofy.com/lynis/lynis-x.x.x.tar.gz`
	- `gzip -d lynis*.tar.gz`
	- `tar -xf lynis*.tar`
	- `chmod +x lynis`
	- `./lynis --help`
	- `cat /etc/*issue`
	- `./lynis audit system`
	- We can go to the https://cisofy.com/lynis/controls website to learn more about the security controls to implement based on the report provided by Lynis, and our security policy.
	- `./lynis audit system --tests "HRDN-7230"`
	- The command above will audit the system for a specific control, we can mention required code in place of the one mentioned above, "HRDN-7230". This can come in handy when we only want to audit for controls that relate to the objectives of our security policy.
	- `./lynis audit system --auditor "Shreyas"`
	- `cat /var/log/lynis-report.dat`
	- `./lynis audit system --quiet`
	- `./lynis audit system --quick`