- Port scanning is the next step in a pentest after host discovery.
- In case no ports or port range is specified, the top 1000 most commonly used ports are scanned.
- Unless a Service Version scan is explicitly performed, Nmap just makes a recommendation on what services are running on the scanned ports, based on the services that commonly use those ports.
- More comprehensive port scanning can be performed by:
	- Specifying the ports to be scanned explicitly
	- Specifying the port scanning technique to be used explicitly
- When dealing with Windows systems, a filtered port state generally means that the Firewall is enabled on the target host and port.

TCP SYN Port Scan (`sudo nmap 10.10.0.1`, `sudo nmap -sS 10.10.0.1`)
	- The default Nmap port scan, in the case of a user with elevated privileges, is a TCP SYN port scan.
	- A TCP SYN Port Scan does not complete the TCP three way handshake, it sends a SYN packet, waits for the response (either a SYN/ACK packet or a RST packet) and then responds back with a RST packet instead of an ACK packet, which would be the case with a TCP Connect Scan. This behavior makes the TCP SYN Scan faster and stealthier than the TCP Connect Scan,
	- Nmap will send a SYN packet to the specified port on the target host.
	- In case a RST packet is received, Nmap will display the port as being closed.
	- On the other hand, if a SYN/ACK packet is received, the port will be considered to be open.
	- In case the target host doesn't respond back, there could be a firewall dropping the response from the target host.
	- In case the host discovery scan before the port scan fails (which is a common occurrence with Windows targets), we can use the `-Pn` flag to skip the host discovery scan to proceed with the port scan.
	- Usage Example (skip host discovery): `sudo nmap -Pn 10.10.0.1`

TCP Connect Port Scan (`nmap 10.10.0.1`, `nmap -sT 10.10.0.1`)
	- In case the user does not have root privileges, a TCP Connect Port Scan is the default scan performed instead.
	- In a TCP Connect Scan, Nmap will complete the TCP three way handshake process. In this case, it will send a SYN packet, wait for the response, and then reply back with a ACK or RST/ACK packet. This makes the TCP Connect Scan slower and less stealthier than the TCP SYN Scan.
	- The TCP Connect scan can be more reliable and accurate than the TCP SYN scans.
	- The TCP Connect Port scan is a very loud and thus detectable technique of port scanning, and should only be performed when there is no concern about detection.
	- The rest of the scan, i.e. how Nmap deduces whether the port is open or closed, based on the response from the target host, is similar to the TCP SYN scan.
	- In case the target host doesn't respond back, there could be a firewall dropping the response from the target host.

Nmap Fast Scan (`sudo nmap -Pn -F 10.10.0.1`)
	- The Nmap Fast scan profile can come in handy in performing a quick, non-thorough assessment of the target system's open ports. It scans the top 100 most commonly used ports on the target system.
	- Since we are performing a quick port scan, skipping the host discovery process can be done, in favor of deducing if the host is active using the results of the port scan performed.

Nmap UDP Scan (`sudo nmap -Pn -sU 10.10.0.1`)
	- Nmap UDP scans resulting in "open | filtered", help us deduce that the target host we are dealing with is using a firewall.

Specifying single or multiple ports to scan on Nmap
	Specifying targets on the command-line:
		- `sudo nmap -Pn -p 80 10.10.0.1`
		- `sudo nmap -Pn -p80 10.10.0.1`
		- `sudo nmap -Pn -p80,445,3389,22,8080 10.10.0.1`
		- `sudo nmap -Pn -p1-100 10.10.0.1`
		- `sudo nmap -Pn -p- 10.10.0.1`

Port Scanning Methodology:
	- TCP Fast Scan: `sudo nmap -T4 -Pn -F 10.10.0.1`
	- TCP SYN Scan on all ports: `sudo nmap -T4 -Pn -p- 10.10.0.1`
	- UDP Scan on specific ports: `sudo nmap -T4 -Pn -p53,137,138,139 10.10.0.1`