- The use of Nmap Scripting Engine for enumeration will be covered in the next sections, this section just entails how the Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE) can be used to increase the type of information we can get with regards to Service Version Detection and OS Detection on the target host.
- The Nmap Scripting Engine, also known as the NSE, is a very powerful feature of the Nmap utility, and essentially allows users to write and share scripts for the automation of a wide variety of tasks.
- It was created to automate and facilitate the automation of tasks like: Port Scanning, Service Version Detection, Vulnerability Scanning, Exploitation, Bruteforcing etc.
- Nmap comes prepackaged with a huge variety of pre-existing community written scripts, which have been verified to be safe to use and authentic.
- The scripts come with the extension `.nse`, and are programmed in the Lua scripting language.
- Directory path of scripts on Linux systems: `/usr/share/nmap/scripts`
- Once we are within the Nmap scripts directory, we can use the grep command to search for relevant scripts: `ls -al /usr/share/nmap/scripts | grep -e "http"`

Nmap Script Categories:
	- Nmap scripts are categorized into different categories like auth, discovery, exploitation, brute-force and safe. Each category addresses a specific type of functionality.
		- Auth: Scripts related to authentication and credential specific techniques.
		- Broadcast: Scripts used to facilitate broadcast or multicast communication to discover hosts on a network.
		- Brute-force: Scripts used to perform brute-force attacks.
		- Default: The default category is a set of scripts within the Nmap scripts database, that provide useful information, without actively engaging with the target system in a dangerous way, which can come in handy for the Active Recon, Footprinting and Enumeration phase of the pentest. (Many other scripts within the Nmap scripts database are relevant for exploitation, and may even cause damage to the target system.)
		- Safe: Safe scripts are scripts that do not actively engage with the target system in a dangerous way like vulnerability exploitation, and are thus safe to run on the target host.
	- Specifying a whole category during the Nmap script scan, will lead to Nmap scanning with relevant scripts for the services running on the target host. Essentially, Nmap in this case does not run scripts for the services that are not running on the target host.

Nmap Script Scan (`sudo nmap -sS -sC -p- -T4 10.10.0.1`)
	- The default Nmap Script Scan performs a scan with the relevant scripts present in the default category. These are generally non-exploitation scripts, and are safe to run.
	- The `-sC` flag is used to perform a Default Nmap Script Scan.
	- The `--script-help` flag can be used to list more information about any scripts we might want to know more about.
	- Usage Example: `nmap --script-help=mongodb-info`
	- We can specify the script to be used in a script scan explicitly by using the `--script` flag.
	- Usage Example: `sudo nmap -sS -p 6421 -T4 --script=mongodb-info 10.10.0.1`
	- We can also manually look for safe scripts to use for specific services running on the server using their service name.
	- Usage Example:
		`ls -al /usr/share/nmap/scripts | grep -e "memcached"`
		`nmap --script-help=memcached-info`
		`sudo nmap -sS --script=memcached-info -p- 10.10.0.1`
	- Multiple scripts to be run can be specified using a single command, by using a comma to separate the script names.
	- Usage Example: `sudo nmap -sS --script=memcached-info,ftp-anon -p- 10.10.0.1`
	- A wildcard operator can be used to run multiple scripts relevant to the same service, for example by using the command `sudo nmap -sS --script=ftp-* -p- 10.10.0.1`

Nmap Aggressive Scan (`sudo nmap -sS -A -p- 10.10.0.1`)
	- The Nmap Aggressive Scan performs OS and version detection, a default Nmap script scan, and a traceroute.

Practical Demonstration:
	- We were able to finally determine the OS version of the target host after running an Nmap default script scan that resulted in information on the MongoDB server running on the target host, which had an explicit field for the OS version, specifying that the target host is running Ubuntu 14.04, along with fields specifying the system time, local time, architecture (x86_64), hostname, and uptime of the system.
	- A lot of information about the target system can be extracted by enumerating the services running on it.
	- The information gathered from this scan can now help us perform vulnerability assessment on the target system, using either the service version (MongoDB 2.6.10) or the OS version (Ubuntu 14.04).
	- By performing a script scan on the Memcached server using the `memcached-info` script, we were able to find out that the server running on the target host does not have authentication enabled, and can be used a potential access vector.

Methodology:
	- Nmap Aggressive Scan: `sudo nmap -sS -A -p- 10.10.0.1`