- SSH stands for Secure Shell, it is a protocol used for remote administration.
- It allows the user to interact with a remote machine over an encrypted channel.
- SSH uses the 22/tcp port by default.

Using SSH
	- `ssh root@10.10.0.1`

SSH Banner Grabbing using netcat
	- `nc 10.10.0.1 22`

Nmap Scripts for SSH Enumeration
	- The `ssh2-enum-algos` script can be used for performing SSH Algorithm enumeration using Nmap.
	- Reports the number of algorithms (for encryption, compression, etc.) that the target SSH2 server offers. If verbosity is set, the offered algorithms are each listed by type.
	- If the "client to server" and "server to client" algorithm lists are identical (order specifies preference) then the list is shown only once under a combined type.
	- Example: `nmap 10.10.0.1 -p 22 --script=ssh2-enum-algos`
	- The `ssh-hostkey` script can be used to show the target SSH server's key fingerprint and (with high enough verbosity level) the public key itself. It records the discovered host keys in `nmap.registry` for use by other scripts. Output can be controlled with the `ssh_hostkey` script argument.
	- Example: `nmap 10.10.0.1 -p 22 --script=ssh-hotkey --script-args ssh_hostkey=full`
	- The `ssh-auth-methods` script can be used to return authentication methods that a SSH server supports.
	- This script is in the "intrusive" category because it starts an authentication with a username which may be invalid. The abandoned connection will likely be logged.
	- Example: `nmap 10.10.0.1 -p 22 --script=ssh-auth-methods --script-args "ssh.user=student"`
	- `nmap 10.10.0.1 -p 22 --script=ssh-auth-methods --script-args "ssh.user=admin"`
	- Since the user student did not have any authentication methods set up, we could deduce that it supported login without any authentication mechanism in place.
	- Although the user student by itself turned out to be a restricted user, so it had limited access controls.